The President:
Today, like millions of other families across America,
Michelle, Malia, Sasha and I
will sit down to share a
Thanksgiving filled with family
and friends --
and a few helpings of food and
football, too.
And just as folks have done in
every Thanksgiving since the
first, we'll spend some time
taking stock of what we're
thankful for: the God-given
bounty of America,
and the blessings of one
another.
This is also a holiday that
captures that distinctly
American impulse to give
something of ourselves.
Even as we speak, there are
countless Americans serving at
soup kitchens and food pantries;
contributing to their
communities; and standing guard
around the world.
And in a larger sense, that's
emblematic of what Americans
have always done.
We've come together and done what's required to make tomorrow
better than today.
That's who we are.
Consider our journey since that
first Thanksgiving.
We're among the world's
youngest of peoples,
but time and again, we have
boldly and resiliently led the
way forward.
Against tough odds, we're a
people who endure --
who explored and settled a vast
and untamed continent;
who built a powerful economy and
stood against tyranny in all its
forms; who marched and fought
for equality,
and connected a globe with our
science and imagination.
None of that progress was
predestined.
None of it came easily.
Instead, the blessings for which
we give thanks today are the
product of choices made by our
parents, and grandparents,
and generations before -- whose determination and sacrifice
ensured a better future for us.
This holiday season, we must
resolve once more to do the same.
This is not the hardest
Thanksgiving America has ever faced.
But as long as many members of
our American family are hurting,
we've got to look out for one
another.
As long as many of our sons and
daughters and husbands and wives
are at war, we've got to support
their mission and honor their service.
And as long as many of our
friends and neighbors are
looking for work, we've got to
do everything we can to
accelerate this recovery and
keep our economy moving forward.
And we will.
But we won't do it as any one
political party.
We've got to do it as one
people.
And in the coming weeks and
months,
I hope that we can work
together,
Democrats and Republicans and
Independents alike,
to make progress on these and
other issues.
That's why, next week, I've
invited the leadership of both
parties to the White House for a
real and honest discussion --
because I believe that if we
stop talking at one another,
and start talking with one
another, we can get a lot done.
For what we are called to do
again today isn't about
Democrats or Republicans.
It's not about left or right.
It's about us.
It's about what we know this
country is capable of.
It's about what we want America
to be in this new century.
A vibrant nation that makes sure
its children are the
best-educated in the world.
A healthy, growing economy that
runs on clean energy and creates
the jobs of tomorrow.
A responsible government that
reduces its deficits.
An America where every citizen
is able to go as far as he or
she desires.
We can do all this, because
we've done it before.
We're made of the same sturdy
stuff as the travelers who first
sat down to that Thanksgiving dinner,
and all who came after -- who worked, and sacrificed,
and invested, because they believed that their efforts
would make the difference for us.
That's who we are.
We shape our own destiny with
conviction and compassion,
and clear and common purpose.
We honor our past and press
forward with the knowledge that
tomorrow will be better than
today.
We're Americans.
That's the vision we won't lose
sight of.
That's the legacy that falls to
our generation.
That's the challenge that
together, we are going to meet.
To every American, I am thankful
for the privilege of being your President.
To all of our service members
stationed around the world,
I am honored to be your
Commander-in-Chief.
And from the Obama family to
yours,
have a very Happy Thanksgiving.
Thanks.